# CENTIPEDE_Reimplementation

This is a re-implementation of the original CENTIPEDE package described here : https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3044858/. The purpose of the CENTIPEDE paackage is to predict transcription factor binding based on experimental data and genomic information. We implement an EM algorithm to predict if transcription factors are actually bound. 

Our re-implementation of CENTIPEDE requires a BAM file, which contains read count data, and a peaks file, which contains genomic coordinates that indicate where peaks were called, such as in DNAse-Seq or ATAC-Seq data. The peaks file should also be scanned for the motif of interest using a program such as FIMO. Our pre-processing was done following the tutorial at https://github.com/slowkow/CENTIPEDE.tutorial. Please also see Preprocessing_prep.sh for our code describing the PWM scan we did, as well as the preparation for the optional conservation data. The peaks file is also used to obtain the distance to the nearest transcription start site (TSS). The proximity to the nearest TSS and the score from the motif scan both contribute to our prior probability. Lastly, the BAM file is used to determine the read distribution, which is later used to construct X. 

***Need to explain how to construct X here***

The function run_centipede() is used to run the model. It requires an input list, which is a list containing containing PWMScan, TSS data, and X. If using conservation data, this matrix must be included as a seperate argument. 

To plot the results, we provide a function called plot_cutsites(). This plots the lambda parameter per each locus, which makes it easy to visualize footprints. We also include the functions compare_results() and plot_roc2(), which we use to validate our data when compared to ENCODE ChIP-Seq data. compare_results() requires a binary vectory of bound status predictions, a dataframe of coordinates corresponding to results with columns 'chr','start','end' and rows as the coordinates in "chr:start-end" format, and a bed file of ChIP-seq peaks. The output is a dataframe including precision, FDR, FPR, sensitivity, and a dataframe comparing the binding predictions with the ChIP-Seq data. This dataframe can be used as an input for plot_roc2(), which uses PRROC to plot an ROC and provide the AUC value. 
